---
title: 考研复试口语
categories: 学习
date: 2021-03-10 15:39:43
tags: 考研复试
---

##### 1. Why was your academic performance in your undergraduate studies unsatisfactory ?（本科成绩不理想）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; First of all, I must admit that my grades during my undergraduate course are unsatisfactory.  

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; The main reason is that when I entered the university, I failed to adjust myself to college-level studies as soon as possible,  which caused me to fall behind others slightly at the starting point.  

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; However, after talking with my tutor and classmates, I started to adjust my situation gradually. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; On the one hand, I actively participated in various activities and competitions on and off campus,  and honed(用石头磨) my interpersonal skills and ability to resist pressure.  

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; On the other hand, I focused on my studies, constantly expanding my theoretical knowledge improving my learning ability and solving my academic doubts in time. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; All these efforts enabled me to get high marks in my later studies and successfully passed the postgraduate examination.

<!--more-->

##### 2.1 Could you tell us something about your family ?（家庭家人）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Thank you for your question, professor. It is my pleasure to introduce my family to you. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; There are five members in my family: my parents, my brother, my sister and I.  My parents are retired workers. Both my brother and my sister are at work.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; My father is the most respected person in my family and highly emphasizes the cultivation of correct values and good habits, which is very important for us. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Besides, pursuing study further is my dream,  and my family highly encourages and supports me. They create a sound environment for me to study. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Whenever I feel dissatisfied with my learning,  they give me a lot of comfort and encouragement. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; So I'd also like to take this opportunity to show my greatest gratitude to them.

##### 2.2 How would you evaluate your performance today?（面试表现评价）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Well.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; First, I'd like to say thank you to every professor here today for your valuable questions. Basically, I think I have tried my best to prepare for this interview and spared no efforts to show my knowledge and views on each question. Since I cherish this chance very much and have therefore made great efforts in preparation for this interview, I am able to answer most of the questions clearly with confidence. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; However, due to the knowledge I have learned is still very elementary, I might fail to cover all the key points when answering some of the questions. This is exactly the reason why I am eager to pursue further study in your university in order to lay a more solid foundation in my major.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Finally, thank you very much for offering me this precious opportunity to demonstrate myself no matter how it turns out, I would keep on working hard and making progress and I will persist in striving for the opportunity to be enrolled in this university.  Thank you.

##### 3.1 What is your favorite hobby ?（个人爱好）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Thank you for your question. In my spare time, I like to climb mountains. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; First of all, mountain climbing is a good way to exercise. It is beneficial to our body.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Secondly, It is a great chance to get close to the nature. We can relax ourselves when we see the beautiful view while climbing.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;  Last but not least, I think it can strengthen our mind too. In order to enjoy the scenery at the top of the mountain, we have to overcome the difficulty of the process and never give up.

##### 3.2 Which course impressed you most during your undergraduate studies?(印象最深的课)

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; I have had many different courses during the past four years, but English intensive reading impressed me the most. I admire Ms. Zhang, the teacher for my intensive reading class very much for her authentic British accent, so I enjoyed every minute spent in her class. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; In a typical intensive reading class of Ms. Zhang's, during the first twenty minutes, we are often encouraged to present our ideas on a certain topic we choose in groups. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Besides, she would also make a comment on our performance from various aspects, such as pronunciation, the arrangement of the contents, the design of the PPT and so on. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Through a large amount of training I have made real progress in delivering a speech in public and have gradually formed the habit of thinking independently, focusing on the current events, and cooperating with my partners. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;  I find her course very helpful and informative because I have gained so much more knowledge and ability from it in addition to the theoretical knowledge in the textbook itself.

##### 4. What is your biggest strength?(优势优点)

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Thank you for your question. I believe that my greatest strength is the ability to work under pressure. One specific example that comes to mind is when I was asked to deliver a marketing project to a client in five days last summer. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Honestly speaking, I was a bit stressed out because this was for a very important client yet I was informed under such a short notice. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; But i did not let the stress affect me Instead, I broke the task down into smaller manageable parts, and came up with a very detailed time table based on average daily workload. with strong commitment to work and a positive mindset, I was able to deliver the project on time and the client was very satisfied.

##### 5. What is your biggest weakness?（劣势缺点）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Thank you for your question.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;  I' ve always been struggling with public speaking. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; However, I have strived to make improvements on this by joining a public speaking club on our campus since my sophomore year. We meet up every Friday night and pick the latest topic to practice. I find this experience so rewarding and it has definitely made me feel more comfortable sharing ideas in front of a crowd.
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Frankly speaking, to this day, I still find presenting ideas to a large audience challenging but thanks to my efforts at the club, now at least I' ve managed to do it professionally. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Hopefully with more practice, I' ll be able to make continuous progress on it and even enjoy public speaking in the near future.

##### 6. Why do you choose to pursue a postgraduate study?（读研原因）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Thank you for your question. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; To be honest, there are many reasons. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Above all,  since I have an intense interest in Telecommunications Engineering, I think interest is the best teacher and it can support me to explore numerous unanswered questions in the field of Information Security. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Second, I think the knowledge I learned in college is far from enough for me to be competent in the information technology industry. As a result, I choose to study for another three years to enrich my knowledge and practice, and lay a solid foundation for future profession .

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Third, nowadays, numerous companies prefer to recruit employees with a master's degree or even a doctorate, and thus it is of great significance for me to pursue further study in order to be more competitive in job-hunting.

##### 7. Do you have any specific plan for your further study if you are admitted?（读研规划）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; About my study plan, I want to divide it into three parts. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; In the first year of my postgraduate study, I will pay my attention to the knowledge of my major. Although I have learnt the essential part of this field, it is not enough for my further study. The academic resources of your library are abundant, which is one of my reasons to study in your university. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; In my second year, I am longing for conducting some academic researches based on what i have learnt If i have the chance to be an intern in relevant organizations or companies, it will be favorable for me to find a job when I graduate. The School of Foreign Studies of your university can provide great platforms and opportunities for my further researches and practice in this field.

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; In the third year, the importance will be attached to the dissertation. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; I believe, under the professional guidance of the experts and scholars in the University I can complete my dissertation smoothly.

##### 8. Can you tell us something about your hometown?（家乡城市）

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; My hometown is Zhejiang, a wonderful city which lies in the eastern part of China. Thanks to its long history, the city has been endowed with a brilliant culture and gorgeous landscape.
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; You can enjoy its various beauty in different seasons. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; As the spring comes, the weather becomes warm and humid. Everywhere turns into an energetic view, such as the flowing river, growing trees, green leaves and gentle winds. the summer here is always hot but bright Autumn is the best season here. It brings the city a passionate look with red leaves and golden mountains. You can climb hills, which would help you release all your pressure and burden. 

&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; The Qiantang River is a must-visit and the tide in autumn is magnificent. People here are hospitable; you can get the most enthusiastic service you never experienced before.
&ensp;&ensp;&ensp;&ensp; Words failed to describe my beloved hometown, but I hope my descrition can arouse your interest towards my hometown.